# CodeClause_Project_name1
now IT sector condition in boomb or recession
 NOW IT SECTOR CONDITION IN BOOMB OR RECESSION.

                              Yes,it the dilama every working,graduate and undergraduate is going through.TECH in trouble?The Indian IT sector is a significant contributor to the global economy, generating billions of dollars annually. However, just like any other industry, it is affected by global economic downturns. Indian IT companies make up a large portion of the worldwide IT market, and the growth of the Indian IT industry is closely tied to global market conditions. The majority of revenue for Indian IT companies comes from the American and European markets, and the IT industry's growth is heavily dependent on the performance of the consumer and banking sectors.Technology companies across various industries have been laying off employees at a rapid rate, similar to the level seen during the Covid-19 pandemic's initial impact on the global economy in 2020. According to estimates, the struggling tech sector has cut over 150,000 jobs in 2022. This includes large companies such as Facebook parent Meta Platforms (which cut over 11,000 jobs in November) and Amazon (which may cut around 18,000 jobs), as well as smaller businesses in the US and other countries. The Indian IT services companies are major employers in the organized sector, and any global economic trends are likely to affect their growth projections. Indian start-up layoffs were also on the rise, with Inc42 reporting that over 15,700 employees were laid off in 2022 due to tightening funding conditions.The Future of Indian ITIn 2023, we anticipate that the year will be divided into three parts. The initial period will continue to see a shift from the pre-pandemic normal to the new normal established by the pandemic. This transition, similar to most changes, is likely to bring some challenges, in the form of a recession. However, the downturn is expected to be short-lived and mild, paving the way for a recovery.While the tech companies have been posting good numbers and remain confident in projections, we still see scope for worry due to a potential slowdown in global demand. Larger IT companies might be a safer bet in this environment, but we have to wait to see a revival in IT, which might be delayed by more than a quarter. As a result, we would be cautious about this sector.With huge dependence on global markets and global growth, Indian IT might in fact see some slowdown in growth in the next few quarters but the tech industry has proven that even in tough economic times, it can not only survive but thrive.The information technology industry in India comprises information technology services and business process outsourcing.The share of the IT-BPM sector in the GDP of India is 7.4% in FY 2022. The IT and BPM industries' revenue is estimated at $227 billion in FY 2022. The domestic revenue of the IT industry is estimated at $49 billion, and export revenue is estimated at $181 billion in FY 2022.The IT–BPM sector overall employs 5 million people as of March 2022.In December 2022, Union Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar, in a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha informed that IT units registered with state-run Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) and Special Economic Zones have exported software worth Rs 11.59 lakh crore in 2021-22.
5 Industries that are least affected by Recession:Healthcare Industry:The first industry that pops into my mind while thinking about companies that can perform well during economic slowdown is the healthcare industry. Whether a person has enough money or not, one makes sure to get the right medication. Not only this, medicines are necessary products, the demand for which will never vanish even if a recession takes place. A great example of such a company would be Johnson and Johnson.
Education Industry:The second industry is- The education industry- Education is one industry that can never slow down. Kids will continue to go to school and parents will continue to pay for it despite recession, stagflation, or economic breakdown. During a recession, jobs can be lost, but the people's hunger for education grows. Many people decide to continue their education (be it through online or offline) when they lose their jobs. The demand for higher education increases as people are still optimistic about achieving their goals. People look for the best options to find another job, and getting higher education becomes a priority,FMCG industry:FMCG industry is the 4th largest industry in the Indian economy with Household and Personal Care accounting for most of the sales in India. FMCG products are sold quickly as the demand is non-elastic. Regular daily items like detergent, toothpaste, skin care products etc., are such basic necessities that can’t be avoided.This sector deals with necessity products. We feel that we have maintained our lifestyles even when our income has dropped. Some of the major players are- ITC, Dabur.Believe it or not, candy consumption in India increased dramatically during the recent economic slowdown. Not only this, the market is expected to grow annually by 6.7% (CAGR 2019-2023).,Utility Industry:The next industry that I would dig deep into is the Utility Industry- Even during recession, we won’t stop drinking tea, or using the water heater right! We'll have to pay the electricity bill, water and gas bill. These payments cannot be delayed. This proves that the basic necessities shall always be fulfilled untill the situation gets out of hand,Financial Advisory:The next in the list is Financial Advisory firms. The stock market is extremely sensitive to market news. One such example is  the news of the US-China Trade war. The market sentiment took a forefront, the result of which was wobbly movement of some stocks. So, in my vision, when the markets crash and start reacting to the news, a lot of people have distorted vision for investing and will need consultation help.You don't know what future holds for you. You have to make choices living in the present. As of recession, I don't think it's going to come anytime sooner than 25–30 years. Though only 5% of the total graduates in India are worthy calling themselves Computer Science Engineers as they are the one who can brag about coding and stuffs, rest don't know what is a “method” or what is difference between “class” and “interface”.Recession is a cause of the falling economy and negatively growing GDP for two consecutive quarters. It is a temporary period and lasts for some months for a less severe recession. Recession is the most challenging time for any country, and the world’s largest economy fears a predicted recession in the coming years.  The inflation, energy crisis due to the Russia-Ukraine war, and increasing interest rates are shifting the world to the possibility of facing a recession by 2023. 
Another severe note contributing to the abuzz Recession is massive tech layoffs, mainly in the US market. There is no second thought the US or global Recession will negatively affect the Indian economy. From rising fuel prices and interest rates to dropping currency are the factors that may lead to a Recession in India. The predicted Global Recession may show its marks on the coming finance budget of Finance Minister “Nirmala Sitaraman“.India has faced 5 significant recessions and is likely to face the next predicted one in late 2023 or early 2024; as per the government, they have backups and plans to save the Indian economy from its fall. Mr. Rajeev Kumar, Vice-President of Niti Ayog, said, “India will not be affected by the recession, and India will grow its economy by 6% to 7% by 2023-2024.” The early 4 recession in India were primarily due to bad monsoon and globally increased fuel prices.  There is a dilemma for the uncertain Recession in India. With this blog, I am trying to shade the clouds by highlighting the current situation of the Recession in India, the meaning of the Recession, and many more.Recession is the most challenging time for every country, and converting negative GDP to a healthy economy is difficult. The shapes of business graphs define the types of recession and may help businesses decide positively.
1. Boom and Bust Recession
Economies face many ups and downs in their growing GDP. In the economic boom, the economy runs above the expected long-run growth rate resulting in inflation. As the economy booms, the situation is unsustainable, and the central bank or other government agencies try to control it by tightening the fiscal policy or increasing the interest rate. It is a short-term recession and can be overcome by reducing inflation. The customer, during this situation, tries to save more by spending less on his debts. An example of a boom and bust recession is the 1990-92 UK recession.
2. Balance Sheet Recession
It is termed my economist Richard Koo. A balance sheet recession occurs when a bank or business sees a significant decline in its balance sheet due to bad loans or increasing debts. When there is an overburden of debt on an economy, the situation comes out as a balance sheet recession.It is a long-term situation with long-lasting effects with falling asset prices like reduced house prices and more. It is difficult to eliminate the balance sheet recession with shifting customer priorities. To clear the balance sheet, customers save more money with less spending. Japan 1990 faced a balance sheet recession, and its long-term GDP growth took a long time to recover. The 2008 recession was also a balance sheet recession.
3. Depression
The continued recession for more than a year resulted in depression. The long and more lasting recession converts into depression. It has severe effects, resulting in 10% GDP growth, unemployment going to 30%, and an unstructured economy.The scariest effect of depression or the hardest recession is unemployment. The recession of the 1930s was a depression.
4. Supply Side Shock Recession
This recession is not long-lasting and takes its shape when there is a decrease in the supply of highly dependent things or commodities like oil. It results from war, natural calamity, or some health crisis. An example was the recession of 1973 when oil prices were as high as triple the base price. At that time, the world depended on oil for most of its energy and business. But, with time, countries discovered alternative oil sources.The type of recession is identified after the occurrence of some new recession as it is unpredictable and countable. The latest black swan recession, COVID-19 time, was completely different and unexpected.

 
